---
layout: post
title: "My very first LEGO set"
date: 2019-03-28 20:14:23 +0100
categories: lego
---


# Back in the days

Set 6339, Space shuttle. Brickset link

official photo 

The set features the american space shuttle with its main and auxilary boosters,
and a complete launchpad setup with the launchpad tower and the transport vehicle
for the assembled shuttle.

I got it around 1996, when I was around 5 years old. It was for Christmas.
I don't remember who bought it to me, and now that I think about it, I may have never known.
After all, when you are 5, Christmas presents come from Santa .

I don't remember it I had asked for it. I guess I did, but who knows anymore 🤷‍♂️.
I've been interested in all things related to space for as far as I can remember.
Maybe it started with this LEGO set, who knows 🤷‍♂️ (I really like this emoji too much I know).

Anyway I remember having a lot of fun with it. I don't really have specific memories,
more of a general feeling. It all started the moment I opened the present.
It is one of those nice box that they don't seem to make anymore when you can
lift the top lid and see the inside of the box without actually opening it.

Photo open the top lid

It does not seem much, but it actually builds excitement, more than if you just 
open the box and can immediately touch the pieces.


# Reborn from the pieces

As time passed, I dissassembled it and the pieces became part of my LEGO collection
that grew for some time after that.

Time passed, I had other LEGO sets, and then I grew up. My interested in LEGO
never disapeared, but it faded a bit.

Then about two years ago, as I was all settled in my adult life, with a job and all,
a little voice talked to me and said : "What if we got back into LEGO ?"

I had been playing with the same old pieces for years, limited in what I could do.
Plus some frequently used pieces were even breaking down to the point that I only
had a few left.

The idea of getting back into LEGO was exciting. I wanted to reconnect with my
childhood, so I figured "What if I could rebuild the old sets I had." I had been
keeping an old box of various pieces accumulated over the years. The original
pieces were among them and had been for almost 20 years.

The internet is a marvelous thing. In a few clicks I found [the instructions for
the launchpad](link) set that started it all, and I got building.

Over the years, some parts got lost or broken. But most of them were still here.
I replaced some of the missing parts with other simmilar parts that I had.

My very first LEGO set emerged from the chaos before my eyes. It had been there 
all along, and I had just brought it back.

photo of my set

I did not want to replace missing parts. I wanted it to be the original. The
missing parts are like the wrinkles on an old man's face, witnesses of time,
reminding those who look at them that they were born in a different time. A time
where things were simple 😌.


# What's in the box

## The space shuttle, duh

The space shuttle has a large opening cargo bay with a robotic arm that can
grab some sort of small satellite.

photo cargo bay with arm grabbing satellite

The cockpit can fit a minifig astronaut with a helmet with a golden shield, but
sadly this guy got lost by time.

photo cokpit open

The bottom of the shuttle is all black, representing the critical piece that is 
the thermic shield.

photo bottom side

## The boosters

The main booster attaches under the shuttle with technic pins.

photo main booster attached to the shuttle

The side boosters attach to the side of the main booster using those square
pieces with a technic pin on the side, but anyway.

photo side boosters.

Those round pieces did not survive well, a lot got lost and others got broken.
Good thing they used a technic axle on the inside :)

## The transport vehicle

How do you move the shuttle onto the launchpad ? The answer is this cute little
station on wheels on which you can fit the shuttle with its boosters.

photo station alone
photo station with shuttle

## The launchpad

The launchpad is quite impressive. It's tall. And wide. And big. And you get the
idea :)

On the ground, it features a small building for control operations.

photo control operations

On the top, there is some sort of crane with clamps and a hoist that you can 
operate from the ground. The crane can come forward and backward.

photo crane head
photo hoist

On the front, there is some sort of trolley. This is actually designed to hold
the main booster.

photo trolley

To see the whole thing in action and see everything there is to know about this
amazing set, take a look at [the review by JANGBRICKS](link).


# A brief history of time

LEGO is an amazing thing. I am always amazed to see that the sets that I buy
nowadays in 2019 still have most of the pieces that were in this set more than
20 years ago, and that everything can still fit together, like if no time had
passed at all.

Some pieces are discontinued, or have been replaced by improved versions, like
the cargo bay doors that were quite fragile.

photo old piece, new piece


# In conclusion

EVERYTHING IS AWESOME!!